# Reward_Learning_and_PD

Parkinson’s disease (PD) is associated with procedural learning deficits. Nonetheless, studies have demonstrated that reward-related learning is comparable between patients with PD and controls (Bódi et al., Brain, 132(9), 2385–2395, 2009; Frank, Seeberger, & O’Reilly, Science, 306(5703), 1940–1943, 2004; Palminteri et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 106(45), 19179–19184, 2009). However, because these studies do not separate the effect of reward from the effect of practice, it is difficult to determine whether the effect of reward on learning is distinct from the effect of corrective feedback on learning. Thus, it is unknown whether these group differences in learning are due to reward processing or learning in general. Here, we compared the performance of medicated PD patients to demographically matched healthy controls (HCs) on a task where the effect of reward can be examined separately from the effect of practice. We found that patients with PD showed significantly less reward-related learning improvements compared to HCs. In addition, stronger learning of rewarded associations over unrewarded associations was significantly correlated with smaller skin-conductance responses for HCs but not PD patients. These results demonstrate that when separating the effect of reward from the effect of corrective feedback, PD patients do not benefit from reward.

Experimental Design 11 Blocks: Practice (1 block) Training (8 blocks) Transfer (1 block) Questionnaire (1 block)

Participants responded with either the right index or middle on a serial response box to two face stimuli shown on a computer screen. During training half of the stimulus pairs yielded a reward if performed correctly within the 3 second trial limit, while the remaining chords only yielded positive feedback if performed correctly within the time limit. Incorrect or late repsonses yielded negative feedback. The sole transfer block was identical to the training blocks except that feedback was not given. The questionnaire was identical to Experiment 1

The data (Reward_Learning_and_PD.csv) and code (Reward_Learning_and_PD.ipynb) provided are intended to be used in a Jupyter notebook on Google Colab.

